
Final assignment / Exam
Statistical Learning, Master in ACIT, 2024-2025
(Shailendra Bhandari, Pedro Lencastre, Pedro G. Lind)
Department of Computer Science, OsloMet – Oslo Metropolitan University, Norway
October 28, 2024
What is this assignment about and why is it important? (audience, purpose and context)
As a future computer scientist and IT expert, you will need to show and present reports to your peers. You may have, for
example, to present the analysis and/or modelling of a specific data set to address a specific problem.
This final assignment is about writing such kind of reports in the field of Statistical Learning. You will be evaluated based
on the knowledge you show to have about what we learned during the classes.
What should you do?
1 Choose a data set, publicly available, of your preference and define one problem which you can solve with that data set.
2 Write a report where you (i) formulate your problem, (ii) describe the data, (iii) choose AI methods to analyze it to-
wards solving the problem you formulated (justify your choices!) and (iv) discuss the outcome, including your own
perspective about the results.
How should it look like?
This is up to you, but remember what we presented in the class:
• It should have an “Introduction”: what is the problem you want to solve? What is the question you want to answer?
• It should have a part about your “Methods and Data”: why this methods? why this data?
• It should have a part describing your “Results”: how to better plot the output of your analysis?
• It should have a part with a “Discussion” of your results: what do we learn from the results (new knowledge)?
• It should have a “Conclusion”: take-home messages?
All in all, you will be evaluated in each one of these points, always from the perspective of well you can justify and
explain your choices in the different steps of data analysis and methods as well as your interpretation of the results and your
conclusions. Always remember the different content we presented and discussed in the classes. Layout and format should
follow the guidelines in the description of this course. You can consult the slides of what was presented in the class (file
AimCourse-PreparationForFinalAssign.pdf in Canvas) and the book “Introduction to Statistical Learning”.
1
